# Web-Based Relational Spatiotemporal Geodatabase of Glaciers in California
## by Chase Van Schoonhoven

A Thesis Presented to the Faculty of the USC Graduate School University of Southern California In Partial Fulfillment of the Requirements for the Degree Master of Science (Geographic Information Science and Technology)
May 2020

## Abstract 
Glaciers are an important indicator of global and local climate change, an important factor in regional environmental health, and a possible natural hazard. The importance of glaciers has led to the creation of many glacial inventories ranging in scale. The datasets from these glacial inventories are often outdated or incomplete, especially for those in California. Additionally, none of the glacier inventories track change in the glaciers over time, but rather they are limited to the data at a single point in time in California. The objective of this project was to create a web-based relational geodatabase and web map to track spatiotemporal information of glaciers in California. The geodatabase was designed with three user groups in mind: geologists and glaciologists, policy makers, and the general public. The geodatabase was also designed to meet several goals. The first was to archive and store the large amounts of glacial data collected by other sources, add temporal attribute onto current glacial data, and plan for new types of data. This was done by developing the database in such a way that it meets current requirements and standards of existing global glacial databases. Additionally, another goal was to create a web map that allowed the data to be easily accessible and useful for various users with different goals. A web map was constructed to display the data within the geodatabase and allow the user-groups to interact with and download the data. The results of this project including the geodatabase, data, methods, images and documentation are published at mapping.cool/california-glaciers and on GitHub, along with the web map for public use. This geodatabase and web map can be used for different applications, ranging from the simple uses like as monitoring glaciers to detect change, to more advanced use of the data such as hazard detection and assessment.Abstract Glaciers are an important indicator of global and local climate change, an important factor in regional environmental health, and a possible natural hazard. The importance of glaciers has led to the creation of many glacial inventories ranging in scale. The datasets from these glacial inventories are often outdated or incomplete, especially for those in California. Additionally, none of the glacier inventories track change in the glaciers over time, but rather they are limited to the data at a single point in time in California. The objective of this project was to create a web-based relational geodatabase and web map to track spatiotemporal information of glaciers in California. The geodatabase was designed with three user groups in mind: geologists and glaciologists, policy makers, and the general public. The geodatabase was also designed to meet several goals. The first was to archive and store the large amounts of glacial data collected by other sources, add temporal attribute onto current glacial data, and plan for new types of data. This was done by developing the database in such a way that it meets current requirements and standards of existing global glacial databases. Additionally, another goal was to create a web map that allowed the data to be easily accessible and useful for various users with different goals. A web map was constructed to display the data within the geodatabase and allow the user-groups to interact with and download the data. The results of this project including the geodatabase, data, methods, images and documentation are published at mapping.cool/california-glaciers and on GitHub, along with the web map for public use. This geodatabase and web map can be used for different applications, ranging from the simple uses like as monitoring glaciers to detect change, to more advanced use of the data such as hazard detection and assessment.
